# Project 'Model'
Project "Model" (this project) contains the definition of Versatile Data Kit APIs.

## Overview
Code in `./src` folder is autogenerated during build time by API definitions in `./apidefs` folder.

## GraphQL Schema

Updating api.yaml very likely requires to update the Graph QL schema used by jobsQuery endpoint.
We try to keep it in sync.

Schema is defined in [schema.graphqls](../pipelines_control_service/src/main/resources/schema.graphqls)

## Build
`gradle clean build`
will generate API stubs in `./src` folder from OpenAPI 3.0 definitions in `./apidefs` folder

To generate python client run:
```bash
gradle buildPython
```

## Release Python API client
Publishing a release happens by bumping the `packageVersion` in `config-python.json` located inside `/apidefs/datajob-api`. There is automation which does this for you on merging the change in master. Note that you should also adopt the new api in the [vdk-control-cli](https://github.com/vmware/versatile-data-kit/tree/main/projects/vdk-control-cli) project. As well as check for any breaking changes.

### Manual Release
For manual release you should generate the package by the following command from inside the `/apidefs` folder:

```
gradle buildPython
```

After that export your LDAP credentials in environmental variables:

```
export PIP_REPO_UPLOAD_URL="pip-repo-url"
export PIP_REPO_UPLOAD_USER_NAME="pip-repo-username"
export PIP_REPO_UPLOAD_USER_PASSWORD="pip-repo-password"
```

Then run the `publish-python.sh` script located inside `/apidefs/datajob-api`.

## Develop
### API
#### API definition
[OpenAPI](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md) v3 is used for contract definition. [Swagger editor](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-editor/) can be used for IDL development (specification with examples) .

#### Adding a new API to the build
You'll need to modify: `./settings.gradle` and `./apidefs/build.gradle` to include your new API (java interfaces) into the build artifacts of model.jar (TODO: make it easier. apidefs build.gradle can be simplified to enumerate subfolders)


### Service that implements an API
To implement actual service, e.g. Team, in your service project you will create controller endpoints by adding ```@Controller``` class that implement the API interfaces from Model:

```java
import com.vmware.taurus.controlplane.model.api.TeamManagementApi; //TeamManagementApi class is an autogenerated stub that resides in model.jar

@Controller
public class TeamController implements TeamManagementApi {
	// implement all TeamApi methods
}

```

### Generating API java classes for local development
To generate and publish API dependencies to a local repository for development/testing run:
```bash
gradle publishToMavenLocal
```
The command has to be run from the ../projects/model folder.
